STATUS.md, before:

# Implementation Status

## ✅ Working

### Frontend
- **Lexer**: Keywords, operators, literals (int, float, bool, string), comments
- **Parser**: Modules, imports, bindings, functions, structs, interfaces, if/while/for, assignment statements
- **Semantic Analysis**: Identifier binding, scope resolution, return checking

### Language Features
- **Operators**: Arithmetic (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`), logical (`&&`, `||`, `!`), comparison
- **Control Flow**: `if`/`else`, `while`, C-style `for`, `break`, `continue`
- **Functions**: Definition, calls, recursion, parameter passing
- **Bindings**: `let` / `const` / `var` with constant folding
- **Assignment**: `x = expr;` for mutable variable reassignment

### Intermediate Representation
- **IR**: Stack machine instructions (literal, reference, store, drop, unary, binary, branch, call, label, array ops)
- **CFG**: Control flow graph construction with dominators
- **SSA**: Phi placement, value renaming, SSA blocks/instructions

### Runtime
- **VM**: SSA-driven interpreter with GC-managed heap
- **GC**: Mark-sweep garbage collector with frame rooting
- **Builtins**: print, println, string operations, array operations, read_line

### JIT Compiler (x86-64)
- **CodeBuffer**: Machine code emission with x86-64 instruction encoding
- **Arithmetic**: SSE instructions for double precision (addsd, subsd, mulsd, divsd)
- **Comparisons**: ucomisd with setcc for <, >, ==, !=, <=, >=
- **Control Flow**: Jump instructions with label patching (branch, branch_if)
- **Memory**: Stack allocation for SSA values
- **Speedup**: 5-9x faster than interpreter for straight-line numeric code

### Optimizations
- **Enum-based dispatch**: SsaOpcode and BinaryOp enums replace string comparisons (~2x interpreter speedup)
- **SSA caching**: Avoids repeated SSA construction for hot functions
- **JIT caching**: Compiled code cached for reuse
- **Function lookup cache**: O(1) function lookup in interpreter

### Testing
- 16 Google Test suites (90 tests) passing
- 13 acceptance test cases
- Exam benchmark programs (factorial, sorting, primes, nbody)

## Benchmarks

| Benchmark | Time | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| Factorial(20) | <1ms | Recursive factorial |
| Primes (100K) | ~180ms | Sieve of Eratosthenes |
| Sorting (1000) | ~60ms | Iterative Quicksort |
| Sorting (10K) | ~800ms | Iterative Quicksort |
| NBody | ~690ms | Solar system simulation |
| JIT speedup | 5-9x | vs interpreter |

## Test Suites
```
[LexerTest]           ✓ (3 tests)
[ParserTest]          ✓ (3 tests)
[SemanticTest]        ✓ (22 tests)
[IRTest]              ✓ (12 tests)
[OperatorTest]        ✓ (6 tests)
[ControlFlowTest]     ✓ (4 tests)
[FunctionCallTest]    ✓ (2 tests)
[RuntimeTest]         ✓ (12 tests)
[AcceptanceTest]      ✓ (1 test, 13 cases)
[BenchmarkTest]       ✓ (8 tests)
[JitPerformanceTest]  ✓ (4 tests)
[JitDebugTest]        ✓ (4 tests)
[JitCorrectnessTest]  ✓ (5 tests)
[JitCacheTest]        ✓ (1 test)
[ProfilingTest]       ✓ (2 tests)
[SortingProfileTest]  ✓ (1 test)
────────────────────────
Total: 16 test suites (90 tests) ✓
```

Commit message:

Release: JIT with full control flow, modulo, logical ops
- JIT compiler now supports loops, branches, phi nodes (SSA deconstruction)
- Added modulo (%) operator to JIT
- Added logical operators (&&, ||) to JIT
- Fixed thread-safety: label_counter is now thread_local
- Enabled compiler warnings (-Wall -Wextra -Wpedantic)
- Fixed all warnings (designated initializers -> C++17 syntax)
- Fixed empty catch blocks with proper error handling
- 134 tests passing across 19 test suites
- Benchmarks: Factorial <1ms, Primes 150ms, Sorting 150ms, NBody 610ms
- JIT speedup: 3.6x-10x for numeric code with control flow

STATUS.md, after:

# Implementation Status

## ✅ Working

### Frontend
- **Lexer**: Keywords, operators, literals (int, float, bool, string), comments
- **Parser**: Modules, imports, bindings, functions, structs, interfaces, if/while/for, assignment statements
- **Semantic Analysis**: Identifier binding, scope resolution, return checking

### Language Features
- **Operators**: Arithmetic (`+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%`), logical (`&&`, `||`, `!`), comparison
- **Control Flow**: `if`/`else`, `while`, C-style `for`, `break`, `continue`
- **Functions**: Definition, calls, recursion, parameter passing
- **Bindings**: `let` / `const` / `var` with constant folding
- **Assignment**: `x = expr;` for mutable variable reassignment

### Intermediate Representation
- **IR**: Stack machine instructions (literal, reference, store, drop, unary, binary, branch, call, label, array ops)
- **CFG**: Control flow graph construction with dominators
- **SSA**: Phi placement, value renaming, SSA blocks/instructions

### Runtime
- **VM**: SSA-driven interpreter with GC-managed heap
- **GC**: Mark-sweep garbage collector with frame rooting
- **Builtins**: print, println, string operations, array operations, read_line

### JIT Compiler (x86-64)
- **CodeBuffer**: Machine code emission with x86-64 instruction encoding
- **Arithmetic**: SSE instructions for double precision (addsd, subsd, mulsd, divsd)
- **Modulo**: Integer truncation-based modulo operator (%)
- **Logical ops**: Short-circuit evaluation for && and ||
- **Unary ops**: Negation (-) and logical not (!) operators
- **Comparisons**: ucomisd with setcc for <, >, ==, !=, <=, >=
- **Control Flow**: Full support for loops and branches (branch, branch_if)
- **SSA Deconstruction**: Proper phi node handling via parallel copy semantics
- **Memory**: Stack allocation for SSA values
- **Speedup**: 3.6x-10x faster than interpreter for numeric code with loops

### Optimizations
- **Enum-based dispatch**: SsaOpcode and BinaryOp enums replace string comparisons (~2x interpreter speedup)
- **SSA caching**: Avoids repeated SSA construction for hot functions
- **JIT caching**: Compiled code cached for reuse
- **Function lookup cache**: O(1) function lookup in interpreter

### Testing
- 19 Google Test suites (134 tests) passing
- 13 acceptance test cases
- Exam benchmark programs (factorial, sorting, primes, nbody)
- Edge case and stress tests

## Benchmarks

| Benchmark | Time | Description |
|-----------|------|-------------|
| Factorial(20) | <1ms | Recursive factorial |
| Primes (100K) | ~150ms | Sieve of Eratosthenes |
| Sorting (5K) | ~150ms | Iterative Quicksort |
| NBody | ~610ms | Solar system simulation |
| JIT speedup | 3.6-10x | vs interpreter (for arithmetic with loops) |

**Note**: Sorting and NBody benchmarks use arrays and function calls 
which are not yet JIT-compiled. JIT compiles numeric computations with control flow.

## Test Suites
```
[LexerTest]           ✓ (3 tests)
[ParserTest]          ✓ (3 tests)
[SemanticTest]        ✓ (22 tests)
[IRTest]              ✓ (12 tests)
[OperatorTest]        ✓ (6 tests)
[ControlFlowTest]     ✓ (4 tests)
[FunctionCallTest]    ✓ (2 tests)
[RuntimeTest]         ✓ (12 tests)
[AcceptanceTest]      ✓ (1 test, 13 cases)
[BenchmarkTest]       ✓ (8 tests)
[JitPerformanceTest]  ✓ (4 tests)
[JitDebugTest]        ✓ (4 tests)
[JitCorrectnessTest]  ✓ (5 tests)
[JitCacheTest]        ✓ (1 test)
[ProfilingTest]       ✓ (2 tests)
[SortingProfileTest]  ✓ (1 test)
[EdgeCaseTest]        ✓ (34 tests)
[StressTest]          ✓ (7 tests)
[AlgorithmTest]       ✓ (3 tests)
────────────────────────
Total: 19 test suites (134 tests) ✓
